This week on the podcast, I had so much
fun chatting with David Gardner of The
Motley Fool. I remember the Fool back in
'93, '94 when it first launched on AOL.
What a fascinating career. If you're a
stock picker, if you're someone who
really is committed to finding the best
companies and then riding them for
decades, you're going to find this
conversation really fascinating. I
thought his book was really interesting.
His whole approach to life, to investing
is really great. I enjoyed our
conversation and I think you will also.
With no further ado, my discussion with
The Motley Fool's David Gardner.
>> [music]
>> David Gardner, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you, Barry. It's a delight to be
with you. Thank you so much.
>> I have a vivid recollection of sitting
on a trading desk and watching you guys
pop onto TV at various times and as soon
as you guys showed up, I'm like, all
right, let me pull up Envidia and
Netflix. I knew they would start running
and then soon
turn around and fade. So, it was always,
[laughter]
I mean, just intraday we'll get a little
later to the difference between
investing and trading.
>> Yes, sir. But but first, I have to go
back to your background cuz it's so
unusual. University of North Carolina on
a Morehead scholarship,
uh focused on a bachelor's in English
and in creative writing. I assume Wall
Street was not the original career plan.
It actually was a career plan as I came
to UNC Chapel Hill as a freshman. I was
telling people, I think I'm going to go
to work on Wall Street. I had a
formative summer
in between my sophomore and junior year
where I worked at Salomon Brothers back
in the day, the good friend era. I think
Michael Lewis was writing Liar's Poker
somewhere around then.
>> Late '80s, I think it first dropped. '88
was it? 1986 for me that I was at
Salomon. So, you probably overlapped
with him at the same time.
>> It was I I don't recall Michael and I'm
really glad to see where he's gone he's
gone on to great heights, but that was
the summer I learned I was never going
to want to go work on Wall Street.
That was that was a really wonderful
experience. I I I just realized it's not
a culture that I'm going to probably
spend time in with as an as an adult.
And so, that was so helpful. I love the
markets.
I just wasn't a Wall Street person. And
you grew up in a household where
markets, investing, stocks were part of
the daily conversation. Your dad helped
you win a high high school stock picking
contest. [laughter]
Tell us a little bit about that.
>> Sure. It was actually earlier than that.
It was fifth grade It was fourth grade.
My dad probably did what other dads did,
picked stocks for their son in this all
boys school, St. Albans School I went to
in Washington, D.C. And I remember he
had Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, he had
Getty Oil. This is back These companies
aren't around anymore too much, but that
that was my stock portfolio and over the
course of 3 months I outperformed my
classmates and so, I won a gigantic
Hershey bar. Like
to my 10-year-old eyes, it was the
biggest Hershey bar I'd ever seen, but
it was a wonderful introduction. You
know, back The real exercise then,
Barry, was just to look in the newspaper
to write down 16 and 5/8
>> [laughter]
>> where the stocks closed. We would do
that once a week over the course of 3
months and just start understanding the
markets. So, that was an early
experience, but really dad was so
formative for me as an investor.
>> It's always It's always fun talking to
the youngsters who grew up with
decimalization.
>> Yeah. Cuz I vividly recall, what's the
price? Up a teeny. You don't get that
anymore. It's a It's a whole
It's a whole
>> of your listeners do, Barry, and I get
it.
>> 16th and right. Yeah. Right. Up a stick,
up a half, whatever it happened to be.
And then, how did you end up writing for
Louis Rukeyser's Wall Street Newsletter?
>> Yeah, so I I started out of college,
took a couple of years to read and write
and travel a lot, got married without a
job and then it was time at the age of
24 to get my first job. And as it turns
out, the newsletter that was supporting
Louis Rukeyser, you remember his show
Wall Street Week?
>> Sure. Uh longest running show on PBS and
he had a newsletter with a financial
newsletter and I got to write the back
page of that newsletter for that first
job. We're reaching hundreds of
thousands of people and I could pick
whatever topic I wanted, so it was
really fun except it ended up not being
fun. And the reason it wasn't fun is
because I would pick a subject like
discount brokers, which was a brand new
amazing thing back then in 1992. Schwab,
what's that? Or Quicken, there's now
software you can DVD load onto your
computer and track your finances and
your stocks. So, I would write these up
and then the edited version would come
back with all of my jokes, color and fun
stripped and the second half freshly
written by my editor explaining all the
reasons you wouldn't want to use a
discount broker or Quicken.
And that's because I was instructed I
was never never took a journalism
course, but I was just an English major,
but they told me, you know, we have to
balance it out here, David. In fact,
Rukeyser is the personality. He's the
color of this newsletter. So, we're not
we're stripping out the color and also
you've got to be you've got to talk
about the downside of discount brokers
and Quicken. I was like, I don't want to
do that. I don't see downside.
>> Well, the downside is you're taking
money out of stock brokers' children's
mouths. [laughter] I mean, what's the
what's the downside of paying less to
trade?
>> Yeah. Well, I discovered that the
downside was a job that just was kind of
creatively deadening. It doesn't really
reflect on Rukeyser. It was the goal of
that newsletter, just to you know,
supplement his TV show and all the rest.
So, but after 6 months, I quit the job
cuz I was just like, this is not fun.
There's an argument to be had that
Rukeyser was peak financial television
and it's been downhill ever since. I I I
I agree.
What they Was he a half hour or an hour?
I don't even remember.
>> You know, I think it was an hour a week.
It was generally Fridays. It would air
at different times of the month. Friday
night, yeah. I remember him from Friday
nights.
>> And you remember his wit? He always had
a monologue to start with,
yeah.
>> Right. Let's go over to our What was it?
Elves? Wizards? [laughter] I'm trying to
remember. Elves, right?
>> it was elves.
>> And it was always fascinating and I you
know, it's funny. I've seen as many of
those on YouTube decades later that I
saw as many as I've seen live on Friday
night.
>> Okay. Like I got no plans. All right,
let's see what Louis has to say. That's
really fun that you would go back and
revisit. You know, I'll just say he was
he was a wit. He was himself outside of
Wall Street. I mean, he's sort of a
journalist, but he he he enjoyed
bringing together brilliant minds on
Wall Street. You know, he had Peter
Lynch. He would regularly focus Lynch
and others. Peter Lynch, Liz Ann
Saunders. You could go down the list of
people that he had.
I'm trying to remember, was it Paul
Tudor Jones before the '87 crash?
>> Might well have.
>> Basically saying, I'm I'm out of stocks.
I'm short. I think something terrible is
about [laughter] to happen and then
Black Monday happened.
Was Like you There was no other place to
see stuff like that except we take it
for granted today that Oh, you want to
see something? It's out there.
>> Yeah, Bloomberg. Right. CNBC. Right.
>> I remember FNN was like the early
player.
>> Pre-CNBC. Definitely.
>> and then CNNfn
was a another one.
>> You are right. And then So, now
>> We're going down memory lane. Is this
what Is this what your audience wants,
Barry?
>> No, no. It's not what they want. They do
not want that, but So so, let let's talk
about you go from Rukeyser. Where did
the idea with you and your brother
working in a shed in the backyard? Where
did the idea come from? Hey, I want to
put my own ideas with personality into a
newsletter. Like how did that become an
actual product? Well, I quit that job
with nothing to go to and then my
brother's best friend from Brown
University, they both went to Brown,
Eric said, "Hey, David, I went to Brown,
but I
shockingly I really know nothing about
investing in the stock market. I'm from
great education, great family. I'm a
television sports producer. What's going
on with stocks? So, would you teach me?"
So, I spent a couple of nights just
sitting down with Eric going, you know,
here's what I look at, here's what I do.
I I was raised in a family where you buy
individual stocks. We're not just going
to index here. We're going to we're
going to be choiceful and we had so much
fun. Eric's like, "Why don't we open up
This is a newsletter. You have no God.
Now you just work for a newsletter." I
was like, "Okay, let's do that." And
then I flipped through a book of
quotations one night and I settled on a
fool, a fool, I see a fool in the
forest, a motley fool. And I just
thought, you know,
>> Shakespeare? Shakespeare. Those were As
You Like It, Act 2, Scene 7 for those
keeping score at home, but for me, this
was, you know, a character I loved
studying, certainly going through school
and everyone loves Shakespeare's fools.
They could tell the king or queen the
truth and they did so with humor. The
only one who could get away with it
also.
>> That's That's right. They were given
license to tell the truth. So, I sort of
loved it. Also, lot great lines like a
fool and his money are soon parted. You
know, gave us a steep hill to climb as
we tried to build trust with people. Why
would you call yourselves fools? And it
started there and it started as a print
newsletter. You mentioned that, Barry.
It was July of 1993 was the first issue.
$48 a year. The only people who
subscribed, our parents' friends. They
were the only ones who pay us 48 bucks a
year. Our friends sure sure weren't
going to for our financial advice back
then. But as we started that newsletter
1993, early 1994, we were signing on
using our modem, our telephone onto AOL,
Prodigy and CompuServe, the big three in
the early private online services battle
and we were starting to discover this
new medium and getting fascinated by it.
And I recall AOL as a stock was $2 or $3
in the early '90s,
something really moderate before it had
a hellacious run straight up for that
whole whole decade. What was it like?
First of all, you guys got fool.com
today.
>> Nobody else wanted it. Every every
proper noun, every dictionary word is
taken. Although, who knows what what AI
and the slow shift from Google from SEO
to AI is going to do to
>> There you go.
>> all these domains, but like domains
changed hands for millions of dollars.
It's kind of crazy. You you went to get
fool.com No but no competition. Yeah.
Nobody wants Nobody wants fool.com.
>> Oh my god, what a
So, the missed opportunity was I could
domain squat every proper [laughter]
noun. So, you launched the website. How
long was it before it was got some
traction? So, we really launched first
of all, Barry, it was August 4th of
1994. It was just on AOL because this is
pre-World Wide Web. 97
was Netscape, right?
>> Yeah, I I I would actually say '96-ish
was when we started coming online on the
web. But no, it was just keyword fool on
AOL, but AOL was going through a period
of dynamic growth. Unbelievable.
fantastic for us. We launched in August.
By November, we were written up in the
New Yorker in the talk of the town
section. And then we had agents and
publishers saying there's a book here,
guys. And we're on television. We're
We're uh have a a radio show
coast-to-coast. We just We were like the
early pioneers who believed in this new
medium and we were going offline Right.
As fast as we could. While everybody
else was trying to come on online.
Right. So, so you were you were already
in I I it's almost embarrassing to use
the phrase cyberspace.
>> [laughter]
>> So, you were online, but you used
traditional
>> superhighway. Right. But uh all the
traditional media to point towards uh
the website. How long did it take before
you kind of said to yourself, "Hey, this
is a real business. I don't have to go
get a job. I could just build this." We
started at such a good time because AOL,
as you'll recall, was a pay-per-hour
service.
>> In the beginning, anyway.
>> Correct. Like $3.25. I think they raised
it to four at one point.
>> Right. And so,
the business model was remarkable for
us. If somebody spent an hour at keyword
fool, we would get 10% of that. So, if
they're paying AOL four four bucks an
hour
>> 40 cents. 40 cents for any hour that
anybody would spend at our site. And so,
with a tiny staff and a big dog that was
mailing out CDs and DVDs to get on to
AOL and
that serves as cocktail coasters at
parties,
uh we we really benefited from that
ramp. And so, we began to be able to
hire other people. When when the when
Yeah, that was it. When the CDs started
getting mailing, I think they had moved
to like all you can eat $10
>> Yeah. uh a month or something like that.
95 was
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I don't I
don't remember exactly what it was. I
just remembered that that was the end of
surprise bills. Oh, it's infinite. Okay.
Great. I'm on 24/7. And that hurt our
business a lot. It In some It also It
also was a major inflection point. Yeah.
Uh-huh. Because we had built a site that
was really fun to visit. We had very
active forums. We were publishing
multiple times a day. Lots of people
were showing up. There were even chat
rooms back then, right? People were
spending time online. And 40 cents for
every hour. So, we were starting to hire
people. And then within a few years, AOL
went flat rate. And all of a sudden, we
had been the stars of AOL. They were
putting us fourth at their partners
conference. We were on the cover of
Fortune magazine just 3 years after we
started print newsletter. Um we were
right out front. And then we became kind
of poison for AOL in this sense.
Every hour that anybody spent, AOL had
to pay connect fees.
>> Now it's a cost instead of a Yeah,
they're only charging 30 bucks flat a
month. And so, all of a sudden, magnet
sites like ours
were not as popular. And then meanwhile,
AOL, understandably, we No no harm, no
foul here, but they were starting to
launch AOL Finance and AOL Stocks and
competing directly with kind of where
we'd camped out and built our whole Hold
my beer. We're going to launch our own
website whether people access it through
you or not. Yeah. Uh that's fine. So, um
and we know the how how the AOL story
ended. Um at at that point, you're
thinking, "Uh-oh, this is a big issue."
How long did it take before the website
hit the same sort of "Oh, this is a
self-sustaining business."
>> we launched the website alongside our
AOL site with our first book, The Motley
Fool Investment Guide, in the summer of
1996.
And the website AOL took part ownership
in us. So, we gave we gave a minority
interest in our company to AOL. And
they're like, "Guys, go out on the web.
Compete with your own site. Compete with
us." Ted Leonsis, who is a real
visionary, and Ted was like, "Guys, no
one's making money on the web. Show Show
anybody how to make money here on the
web." And so, we built our website and
we started pointing people to our both
our website and our AOL site. And as it
grew and as AOL went flat rate, the good
news for us is a lot more people came
online at that point. 30 bucks a month
versus $4 an hour, a lot That's
mainstream. Yep. Um and and also good
news for us is that we could survive as
a free site. So, we could now be free
for a lot of people. The bad news was we
we shifted business models straight
straight up advertising. Right. At that
point, it's all about eyeballs and
clicks. And your customer Our customer
just changed because our customer had
been the beloved fellow individual
investor who was taking a risk to even
go online back in the day. And there
they were paying four bucks an hour and
they loved us. And they were our members
and they were paying us directly. All of
a sudden, they became the product that
we sold to advertisers, right? Because
that's obviously the free ad business is
your customer is your eyeballs are now
your new product.
>> And and as a reminder for for the
youngsters listening, '96, '97,
"Wait, you want me to give my credit
card to a random And this is such a
weird
>> days of Amazon, early days of AOL, all
right, there were a handful of companies
you might trust. But there's a million
websites. I don't trust any of these
guys. I heard that over and over again.
How long was it before you people felt,
"Oh, we could subscribe to this
newsletter. We could give these people
money to manage." What was the the
forward timeline? So, thank you for that
memory because this is very important.
Anytime a new technology shows up, it's
generally we're fearful about it. What
is AI going to do to jobs?
>> Well,
back back then, I I had a tech buddy who
always used to tell me, "If you want to
know where technology goes, watch the
X-rated stuff cuz they'll be the they'll
be the first with micro payments.
They'll be the first with faster than
real time and streaming and things like
that." And it turns out that that's a
big driver of online business even to
this day. Yeah, and I think that's
that's true. So, you're right. Premium
experiences and premium services are
where the web has ended up. Mhm.
However, there was a whole shift um '98,
'99, 2000,
you really couldn't charge for anything
on the web. If we had tried to say, "You
now shall pay for our site." Or there we
have a subscription service, we would
have been laughed at. Right. Um at the
same time though, as a stock picker, I
was picking AOL stock saying, "I think
this is an amazing company." And it sure
enough was. It ended up being a
150-bagger at its top. Didn't end there,
but it was still a remarkable investment
that lots of people had followed us into
AOL and other stocks like the Amazon.
And and it was really going against
conventional wisdom at the time to say
buy Amazon. Buy AOL. And so, I I want
people to remember that because now it
looks so obvious. I mean, AOL didn't end
well. Amazon has ended really, really
well. It hasn't ended.
>> Right. That's right. So, so it's
important to remember those moments cuz
we tend to forget them. We we We also
forget the dawn of AI. This is first
inning of this ball game and people will
look back and go, "It's all so obvious
in retrospect." It's always obvious in
retrospect.
>> indeed, Barry. It's at the time it's
really challenging. Um so, last question
in this segment, if you were starting
The Motley Fool in 2026 instead of
1993,
so we have social media, we have free
trading, we have ETFs everywhere. The
the world is so different today than it
was 40 years ago.
What would you do 30 years ago, anyway?
What would you do differently? How would
you build the site and a business today
this time around? Well, I think first of
all, one thing that we know today that
we didn't do back then that I think is
very helpful in every era is to be a
purpose-driven business and to state
what is your mission, what is your
purpose, and really hew to that and
breathe through that and and hire for
that and promote because of that. And
conscious capitalism is one of my themes
as an investor and a a board that I've
served on. So, I now have those eyes
that I didn't have back then. And I
think that that is
such a strong thing. Um most of the best
companies I know look at uh uh crazy
business of fast food chicken.
Chick-fil-A is an amazing company. I
wish it were a public market company. It
would have been one of my stock picks.
But they just fundamentally act
differently than McDonald's and their
competitors. And it's because it's like
a leadership academy masquerading as a
chicken joint. Still still closed on
Sunday.
>> Yeah, exactly, which is their choice.
Radical and it was So, those are the
kinds of companies that I admire and
like. That's what I've always wanted The
Motley Fool to be. So, I I would do that
in earnest today in a way that I think
would cut through a lot of the noise and
people saying there's too many choices
and all the rest. Standing for something
and then living that every day. Most of
the best companies that I can think of
do that. So, I would be trying to do
that, Barry. But yeah, it is a different
world. I mean, we
One thing that's changed, I think for
the worse, and I'm an optimist,
almost everybody's mailing it in with
index funds these days. Like I was
raised in an era where it was kind of
normal, at least in my family, buy a
stock. These days, the conventional
wisdom has become you'd be crazy to buy
individual stocks. That's so risky. Just
index. And while I admire Jack Bogle
deeply and I appreciate indexing and The
Motley Fool has always been a big
supporter of index funds,
have we really got an era where you
shouldn't even pay attention or care
anymore and you can't probably beat the
market because it would just be luck to
pick Chick-fil-A over Kentucky Fried
Chicken? I don't think so. I didn't
think so back then. And so I would be
definitely sounding that loud and clear
today. There's even more big dumb money
slashing around than ever before cuz so
much is just throwing it at everything
and not discerning this one versus that
one.
>> Huh, really really interesting. I I want
to talk a little bit about the
philosophy around
um rule-breaking investing and and stock
selection. One of the things that jumped
out of the book from your framework was
top dog and first mover, customer love,
visionary leadership. Discuss. Yeah,
well, thank you. Um these are some of
the traits that I'm looking for in
stocks. And I think before we start
this, Barry, I should just again
underline I believe it is a worthy thing
to choose stocks. I really want to find
the best companies of our time and I
want to own them for a long period of
time. And actually, it's it's for many
people it's actually easier to find
Amazon or eBay back in that era or
Nvidia more recently,
but to actually hold them. To hold them,
to allow them to multiply in the way
that they will if you do. In my
experience, that's hardest for most
people.
>> talk about that cuz
Amazon after the dot-com crash plummeted
to single digits. Apple has had more
near-death experiences than I can count.
Nvidia, go down the list. Google,
Facebook, they
Facebook's IPO was a disaster. It got
cut in half like within few months of
that. And then they kind of unlocked
mobile and it was off to the races.
Yeah, Tesla. The these companies trade
more like cryptocurrencies than than
companies. How do you find the
confidence and the commitment to stay
with something down 40, 60, 80%? So,
thank you. And I I would say first of
all, it's not worth doing that for every
investment.
>> Mhm.
>> Certainly, if it were some dodgy crypto,
I wouldn't be holding. But you used an
important phrase a minute or two ago.
You said top dog and first mover. So,
when I look at important emerging
industries,
um and I see a company with a large
customer base. They may not be
profitable yet, but they're doing good
things in this world, a world I want to
live in.
And their stock's down?
Their stock's been cut in half? What's
the reason? Sometimes it's the the CEO,
like Howard Schultz back in the day with
Starbucks, was just occasionally
conservative. And the analysts were
surprised as he under-promised.
And then the stock drops 15%, you know,
in a week.
>> the story about this going on The View.
The stock ends up down 30% but and that
was your last appearance. And then what
happened to Starbucks?
>> It went up 30 times in value and we've
never been back on The View. But and by
the way, I'll return to it anytime. We'd
love to close the loop on that story.
But yeah, that was 1998 early TV
appearance. Uh we picked a stock for the
ladies of The View. And [snorts] uh and
then it was Starbucks. That's the
punchline, by the way. I shouldn't have
given that. But yeah, the stock dropped
um 30% in in just a couple of months.
And we went back on the show to update
the story. And they booed us
good-naturedly. And they're like, "Oh,
well." And we're like, "Keep holding
though. Keep holding." And then they've
never invited us back since and it's
gone up 30 33 times the value from our
first appearance, not even including the
33% drop. So, I mean, that was an iconic
moment. I didn't realize it at the time.
But as I wrote Rule Breaker Investing, I
was just thinking, "That's my story."
Because that's what most people miss.
Most people are following the headlines
instead of following real progress. And
they're chasing stuff. And if you just
look and ask, "Who are the movers and
shakers delivering products and
services? Electric cars, robotic
surgery, coffee houses, uh better
fajitas?" Uh the list goes on. Who are
the good
>> thinking Stryker, Chipotle, Tesla. Yeah,
well, actually Intuitive Surgical. Like
yeah, yeah. Um but yes, you're thinking
exactly the companies I was thinking.
>> the robot that did my surgery. So,
>> happy to hear that.
>> And and when I I recall walking into the
surgical theater and looking around and
saying, "Oh, this is where the future
is." I I've just gone 20 years forward
cuz this whole thing is here's the big
robot with all the like, "Oh, now I
understand." Like the rest of the world,
we're living in the past. This
technology is is as cutting edge as it
gets. It's It's really amazing. I love
that. And I'm so glad to hear that for
you and successful surgery, which is
what we all want, robot or human. But
yeah, it turns out there are lots of
advantages to robot-assisted surgery.
And Intuitive Surgical has really been
the the pure play small company. Stryker
is a more bigger diversified company.
Yeah.
>> Anyway, but for each of these, like I
just happen to remember what the little
logo on the side The last thing I saw
So, when I look at
>> They're They're like, "This will help
you relax." And then the next thing I
know I'm in recovery. But the last thing
I saw was the Stryker logo. Great story.
And you know, so it's funny you
mentioned the future and feeling like
you're living in the future. That's
generally where I try to be as I pick my
stocks. And just for the fun of it, one
of my best stock picks in the last 15
years has been Tesla, which I picked in
2011, still holding. And and I bought
I've owned a number of Teslas since. And
I was driving around in Tesla in 2013.
My license plate in Washington, D.C. is
future. Like no one else thought of it.
So, I'm I'm watching out for the future
in Washington, D.C. And I'm driving
around going, "I really am inside the
future." And I'm surrounded by not just
other cars that aren't yet, but a whole
industry, gas stations, etc. of things
where there's not as much maintenance
needed. So, that's a great iconic
example of for me, whether it's
Starbucks back in the day, which was
questionable for a lot of people cuz it
looked like a fad. That was the big rap
on Starbucks early '90s. Where have
coffee houses ever come from in America?
There's no background for this. This is
such a fad. Paying five bucks for
coffee? Are you serious, right? That So,
AOL was all just chat rooms. They're all
all going to be hyped. No one will ever
give their credit card over the
internet. Tesla, electric cars will
never work. Intuitive Surgical, why
would you have a robot when you humans
can do it just as well? Dot dot dot. The
list goes on and
>> around. Why would you have a human when
a robot can do it?
>> That is indeed
>> More Not only just as well, but more
consistently.
And it doesn't matter if they had a bad
night, it's it's fine the next day.
>> And minimally invasive. And speaking of
the next day, you're walking home the
next day at night. It's a two days
>> Oh, no, same day. You walk out of the
hospital. It's kind of terrifying.
Although you're still on a lot of drugs
at that point. So,
>> Well, one of my heroes is Clayton
Christensen who wrote The Innovator's
Dilemma. And he's somebody who helped me
understand and think about disruptive
innovation. And I've always invested in
the innovators. And back to your earlier
question, Barry, you know, I I can keep
holding my Netflix when it loses
two-thirds of its value when I believe
in Netflix and I see visible proof every
day of how important Amazon back in the
day, Netflix, Tesla, the list goes on,
the companies we've mentioned. So, that
helps me hold these companies. If you
follow the company as opposed to the
zigs and zags on the stock charts or the
headlines, uh you're going to be much
more patient, I think, as an investor.
And that has been my That's been a
superhero power for me. So, walk us
through your your stock-picking process.
How does a company first land on your
radar? What sort of analysis do you do?
Uh when do you decide you're comfortable
to put it on your buy list? And are
there any non-negotiable
checkboxes that you say, "Nope, that's a
knockout. They don't have this."?
>> every one of those questions I could
possibly fill your ears up. So, I'll try
to be brief. I love the questions. In
reverse order, by the way, I'll say any
non-negotiables? I don't invest in
companies whose fundamental business is
to take money from other people. And so,
you'll never see me recommend a
so-called gaming stock. And I think
sports betting is a joke. And it's While
I think it always should have been
legal, I think it is a sad waste of
money for anybody who does the math. And
so, that would not be on my list. No
Motley Fool member has ever received a
gaming recommendation from me.
>> And they have been very destructive
primarily to college-age men. Yeah. Uh
there's a growing gambling addiction
problem. And these companies just that's
their that's their clients. Uh yep. And
and I will say I love sports. I know you
do, too. And I'm happy making a bet with
friends. But if you really do the math
of a 50/50 prospect where the house
takes out its 10% and you just do your
expected return and play that forward
with all your money, I know where that
goes. And you could have had 9 to 10%
annualized returns.
>> There's a huge difference.
>> There's a huge difference between doing
a box for the Super Bowl or something
for March Madness
and betting on free throws. I mean, it's
it's just It has nothing to do with
sports. That's just the medium by which
they are tickling your adrenaline and
dopamine. It's It's so And yet these
have become giant businesses.
>> Yeah, and you know, even something as
innovative as prediction markets, which
I am fascinated by, are also being
turned into quick quick money and or
sometimes questionable who can influence
the outcomes of prediction markets. So,
these are unfortunate things where I
think they're fascinating to follow, but
if you're serious about your own money
and you would like financial freedom one
day, you're making a huge mistake if you
go there. So, back to your question,
that's a non-negotiable for me. I don't
like businesses that just fundamentally
lead people who don't know math to give
their money away regularly. I don't feel
great about that if I'm a shareholder.
So So, let me roll you back a little
bit. How does a company typically find
its way onto your ra- Is it something
you're using or something you hear
about? Like, where do most of your these
ideas come from? So, the ideas come from
First of all, I'm an early adopter. So,
I've got a closet full of things where I
bought the thing early, first gen, and
it's not really working or wasn't
relevant anymore. And so, but but it
also meant I bought Tesla very early on.
I And and I tried online services with
my scratchy phone, that sound we can all
hear if you're over 40 years old today,
of logging onto AOL. So, I I love
the new. I'm excited by AI. Um and
that's not an industry, by the way. That
is a plate tectonic shift for our
society that's going to create many
industries, many of which don't even
exist yet. Just as we were excited about
the internet with Amazon, where my cost
basis today is 16 cents, still holding,
Uber hadn't even shown up yet. Google
hadn't shown up yet. I mean, it's it
will be years before AI companies that
are amazing, that are great stocks, show
up. So, no one should feel anxious that
they don't have an AI portfolio yet. But
anyway, um so, I'm an early adopter, and
then I'm connected to a community. The
Motley Fool community, our forums,
discussion boards, meeting people at
book signings. The list goes This
conversation right now. You mentioned
Stryker. I probably need to look back at
that one. I'm curious how it's done. So,
I'm just always listening. Of course,
social media is full of these kinds of
opportunities. So,
intellectual curiosity is the flame that
will burn my whole life long and in many
of my fellow fools, and I think my host
today as well. So, I think that if
you're curious and you're asking
questions about where society's headed,
and you're specifically looking for
products and services that will improve
our lives and our kids' lives, you're
going to be looking You're going to be
fishing in the right pond.
So, once something falls on your radar,
you have six Rule Breaker criteria. Walk
us through those six. Really, that's the
heart of the analysis that you do,
right?
>> It is. It's It's six traits that I'm
looking for, and that's the middle of my
book, and I didn't start the book that
way, and we can talk about that later if
you like. But, let me just rattle right
now through my six traits of Rule
Breaker investing. And by the way, I
have used these now into my fourth
decade. I didn't just come up with these
yesterday. This is exactly what caused
me to pick AOL, Amazon, Tesla, Nvidia.
The list goes on. And it's Some of them
are so contrary, which is why I think it
works. Number one, top dog and first
mover in an important emerging industry.
We already spoke to that one. We could
go deeper into
>> So, for today, that might be Nvidia, it
might be Broadcom, it might be A- ASM
Lithography, it might be AMD. It could
be any of the semiconductors or some of
the software companies, Google,
Microsoft, whoever. Yeah, and and and
also, by the way, restaurant companies,
retail. I mean, an- every industry, I'm
asking, "Who's the innovator?" I want to
know who the innov- And if you honestly
just
only focus your stock market attention
on the biggest innovator in each
industry, some of them are small,
emergent, some of them are big, you're
going to do so much better as an
investor.
>> Starbucks, the third place, that was the
big driver of them. Chipotle, they came
up with a way to assembly line fresh
food.
>> Yeah. Better quality.
>> that it happens to be Mexican-based is
almost irrelevant irrelevant. You see
Cava today doing the same thing with
Mediterranean, and I'm sure there are
dozens of others coming up.
>> There are. And by the way, not all of
these work out as stocks.
Um I I certainly have a a closet full of
bad stock picks as well. We could talk
about that later, but that's very
important. If you have sort of a a
venture capital mentality as you look at
the public markets, which is how I
describe myself, you need, just like a
VC, you need to be comfortable with
losing. It's Another words, it's you're
you're looking for Here are 100
investments,
50 of them might not work out, 30 will
do okay, but it's the top two or three
that make it worthwhile. Yeah, and and I
truly go into all 100 saying, "I like
this company. I believe in it. I hope it
works out." But, I'm never loading up on
one,
uh etc. So, top dog and first mover in
an important emerging industry of my six
traits, that's the most important.
>> Mhm. So, number two, we're looking for a
sustainable competitive advantage. A
moat, as as Buffett likes to say.
>> You bet. And And because we're holding
stocks for a dead minimum of 3 years,
Mhm. preferably three decades,
sustainable competitive advantage really
really matters. And that takes many
forms. We could talk about that. Um
number three, uh so, the first two are
about the company, the third is about
the stock. Mhm. And this is I'm looking
for a strong, stellar past price
appreciation in the stock.
>> In other words, you're not looking for
the cigar stub, to use Ben Graham's The
opposite.
>> phrase. You're you're looking for
something with a little momentum and
where more and more uh investors are
stepping in.
There's a chapter in my book, and it was
an eye-opener as I wrote it and realized
it, where I listed out seven of my best
stock picks, from Intuitive Surgical to
Netflix to Apple to Amazon to Nvidia and
a couple of others, and I noticed, and I
only realized this in retrospect, that
in the three to nine months leading up
to my first pick of them,
on average, they had risen 30 to 90%.
And a lot of people, I think most
people, when they are researching a
stock goes up 50%, they're like, "Missed
it."
>> 30, right. It's done.
>> Yeah. And so, part of the reason Rule
Breaker investing works is because I'm
willing at that point not just to buy
it, but to actually be more excited
about it, because clearly, the market is
noticing what's happening now. And when
companies rise,
reflexivity starts to show up, Barry.
They start having more resources.
They're getting mentioned on Bloomberg
Radio. All of a sudden, a lot of good
stuff starts coming to them. That
strengthens them. That's not a reason to
look for another cigar butt and ignore
Nvidia. So, that is trait number three,
stellar past price appreciation. In a
world where most people are like, "Buy
low, sell high," I'm looking at the
52-week low list, friends, not the
52-week high. Uh and when I say friends,
I mean that's the average person
speaking. I'm looking for the 52-week
high. Give us four, five, and six.
>> Sure. So, number four, it's all about
the people. Um we're looking for um
smart backing and excellent management.
So, it's the human capital. And this is
again, in some ways, obvious. Yeah, we'd
love to have Steve Jobs be our CEO.
Yeah, we're glad that Jeff Bezos is our
CEO or Warren Buffett. Um but, keep in
mind, and this is a a really
hidden in plain sight,
I think profound insight that most
people don't see, even though I it's
hidden in plain sight. There is no
number to express the value of the CEO
running companies. So, we have a whole
Wall Street world that's built on
valuation ratios, generally off of
earnings or cash flow, sometimes off of
assets, and they're not including that
Elon Musk is the CEO of the company. And
by the way, there are a lot of CEOs who
are subtracting value from their
companies, and there's nothing to
express that. And so, we have a whole
world driven off algorithms that
increasingly is computer trading, it's
not even humans anymore, and they're not
noticing or caring, I think, about trait
number four, who the heck's running this
thing and who's backing it. That matters
deeply to me, especially if I'm holding,
as I do, for three decades. Number five,
we're looking for strong consumer
brands. I love companies that
have raving fans. And it doesn't mean
every time that they are consumer
brands. Stryker Drilling, Intuitive
Surgical, these are not consumer brands,
per se. Although,
uh Intuitive Surgical, with its da Vinci
surgical robot, you will hear your local
on your local radio, if you still listen
to it, you'll hear an ad for the
hospital bragging, in some cases, that
they have a da Vinci. So, there is some
brand recognition there, but Starbucks,
Netflix, Amazon, these are all my best
stock picks, and I bought them years ago
and still hold them today, and they all
exhibit that strong consumer appeal.
And the final?
Probably my favorite, secret sauce. So,
if if you're following us, the first two
were about the company, the third was
the stock.
Then, the next two, four and five, the
people and the brand, are about the
company.
Number six is about the stock, and it's
specifically that the stock is generally
considered
capital O overvalued by the by the world
at large, by Wall Street commentators,
by people in Barron's, CNBC, never
Bloomberg Radio.
>> a little contrarian perspective. We are
specifically wanting people to call out
Tesla as ridiculously overpriced,
"Amazon will never make money."
Intuitive Surgical, when I first
recommended it over a 100-bagger ago, it
was at 73 times earnings. There are
people, if they even do pay attention to
stocks anymore, that say, "I would never
buy a stock with a price-to-earnings
ratio of 73." The list goes on. So, so a
lot of times, when we see stuff,
especially with a company that's
relatively young, you start to see the
company grow
into their valuation. Nvidia is a great
example. It was a semi maker, then it
was a floating point chip maker for
gaming before it did the pivot to full
AI, cuz
FPUs are turns out to be better than
CPUs for
uh large language models, and and I
don't pretend to be a wizard on that.
>> GPUs than GPUs, right? That's right. Um
I don't know what F is. Uh floating
point unit. But, GPUs, that's exactly
right. But, you know, two years ago,
Nvidia was like a 75 PE, now it's like a
40 PE and falling. Um can't some of
these overpriced companies just grow
Apple is another example. For the
longest time, people looked at Apple in
the 2000s, when that newfangled iPod
came out, and said, "Oh, they
they don't have any profits whatsoever.
Why would I want to own Apple in '04 or
'05?"
So, I think that First of all, let's be
clear. There are things that are
overvalued that you and I would not want
to buy.
But, if you're following our
conversation,
if you're buying a top dog and first
mover in an important emerging industry
with a sustainable competitive
advantage, stellar past price
appreciation,
excellent management, smart backing,
strong consumer appeal. It has all five
of those things in place. And then some
guy on CNBC is telling you it's
blatantly overvalued. It's crazy. No one
should ever buy that stock. Amazon.bomb
cover of Barron's.
That is the special sauce that causes me
to say, "Bam, now we're buying." And
it's so contrary. The Amazon.bomb
was, I want to say, January 2000. And we
did see a giant collapse. What what was
The Qs fell about 82% peak to trough.
That's a pretty big gap.
>> it all the way. In fact, our cost base
is 16 cents. It had gone up. It was a 30
bagger. And again, when when I'm picking
stocks, this is not for my This is not
for my own portfolio. This is not This
is lots of people following The Motley
Fool. This These are people subscribing
to us. So, when I pick a good stock, it
feels really good. It's not about me.
When I pick a bad stock, it doesn't feel
very good. It's not about me.
>> Or a big a good stock that hits a
buzzsaw when a market gets shellacked. I
mean, you could own anything during the
financial crisis. Everything still got
cut in half more or less. It was quite a
quite a crash.
>> You're right, Barry. And the truth is
that if you follow any of these
companies, I've I've littered our
conversation with 15 to 20 company names
that are really 15 to 20 generationally
great stocks. Every single one of these
stocks has lost 50% or more of its value
more than once. Which means that if
you'd followed Motley Fool advice,
depending on your timing, you might love
me or not like me. You might be like,
"Yeah, I got in there, but uh yeah, got
cut in half and I got out."
We're holding all the way through. We're
buying
and we're holding. So, I have watched
Amazon go um This is kind of pre-split.
It was at three when we first
recommended it. Went to 95,
down to seven during that 2001 era.
>> More splits soon after.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's now split down to 16
cents. Which by the way is also my cost
base is on Nvidia. Thanks to the magic
of stock splits, they both got me at my
16 cent cost base is still holding. So,
but to to do that, like Nvidia just
three years ago lost half of its value
in one year. This is one of the largest
companies
>> like four months it got cut in half,
yeah. So, this is just going to happen.
>> 2022, it really got shellacked. This is
not going to happen for companies that
are not dynamic. This is not going to
happen so much for cyclicals. I mean,
there will be some cyclicality. These
are rule breakers. These are stocks
that, by most popular view, were
blatantly overvalued. You should never
have bought Amazon all the way through,
et cetera. And so, they're going to be
more volatile. Netflix was going to get
put out of business by Walmart. I don't
know if you remember this, but back in
the day of the red envelopes, all of a
sudden Walmart said, "Hey, you can just
drop it off at your Walmart, your DVD.
You don't have to mail it back to
Netflix." And that was going to Netflix
was supposedly toast then. So, I've AOL
was going to be toast. It eventually was
kind of toast, although it sold out.
But I've watched It's such a key
indicator, trait number six. When people
say it's toast, that Not for every
stock, but for the rule breakers, that
is magic. It has been for me. Huh. So, I
I want to ask you about the first stock
you purchased where you said, "Oh, this
checks all six boxes. This is my rule
breaker." It was AOL. Yeah. Definitely
AOL.
>> 1990, when? Four, five, six?
>> picked it the day we launched on AOL.
1994, August 4th, 1994. And from that
point, I watched AOL. And And again, we
were
I mean, we're always fully transparent.
People are like, "Wait, you guys are on
AOL. Is there a conflict of interest?
You're recommending AOL stock?"
>> No, we know what it is because we're on
it. We see what this can do for
investors and what the future of the
company is. It's pretty self-evident.
>> You know, you're right. And yet, not
everybody would have felt that way back
then. But it was I mean, we had no
inside view of AOL. We were separately
domiciled, but we watched AOL grow. And
it was such an object business lesson as
an entrepreneur for me. And but as a
stock picker, I was watching it get
called out as the most overvalued stock
um repeatedly by august bodies like the
World Economic It's not the World
Economic Forum in today, but basically
all the economists in the world would
get together every summer. And two
summers in a row, it was like '96 and
'97, they voted the most overvalued
stock. And it was the stock that we had
backed. And our members are like, "Guys,
they're calling the most overvalued
again." We're like, "This is an amazing
company." It went up 150 times in value.
And I learned so much from that
experience. And as we mentioned, it
didn't end there. It started to drop
back and fell back and eventually just
kind of
got taken over and you know, merged with
Time Time Warner. When when people stop
calling stuff overvalued and every
analyst on the street has a strong buy
on it, that's usually when
>> [laughter]
>> you want to be on the other side of
that. Right?
>> That can be true. I will also say that
I definitely appreciate the sentiment
and I smile at that askance with you as
well. I will say that we typically just
hold well longer than whatever analysts
are thinking or saying. We don't really
pay attention. So, you're not quarter to
quarter? Is that what you said?
>> No, yeah. No. I mean, we love following
business. By the way, one thing you
asked me to think a little bit about is
Is there anything that
people should be talking more about,
especially if something that troubles
me? And a quick example would be um I
really think we should have companies
reporting every three months their
financial results. And you may know
there's a movement of foot to allow some
companies just to report twice a year. I
think that's a really bad bad decision.
And I hope we don't do that. I hope
companies will self-report and choose to
to be transparent on a regular basis
with their results. I I'm going to take
it a step further than you and say and I
wrote this before AI was ubiquitous,
if you want to get rid of quarterly
reporting, instead of going once or
twice a year, make it real time and
24/7. Cuz you could update that. You
could set up technology to update Here's
where we are. Here's how close we are.
Here's our range. You can do money
Carlo, what we would likely to do each
quarter. And so, the problem is the
focus on quarterly, if it was all the
time, like you can look at your
portfolio or your checking account 24/7.
You shouldn't, but you can. And it it's
made I remember in the '90s or in the
2000s, we would be printing stuff out,
folding them up, sticking them in
envelopes, sending them out. And the
quarterly report was a when I was a
junior having to do that crap in the
mail room. [laughter]
Uh it was a big deal, the quarterly
report. Now, nobody really thinks about
your portfolio
quarterly cuz you can access it whenever
you want. It's kind of I think it's
absolutely heading in the wrong
direction.
>> Yeah, well, so more transparency is is,
you know, the the theme here. But
for me, I think a lot about, you know,
what what is going to be in the best
interests of armchair investors like me.
Because Barry, we are We're individual
investors. And so, I'm there
representing anybody who is in an
investment club or uh was given a
portfolio of stocks and they're trying
to figure out how to make better
decisions. And I think it's so rewarding
to to pick stocks in a world where it's
increasingly called out as crazy talk to
actually buy an individual stock.
>> So So, we talked earlier about uh stocks
like Apple and Nvidia and Netflix and
Amazon that have all gotten cut in half
repeatedly. How do you tell the
difference between a stock that's just
going through
so sort of regular volatility versus GE
got sliced in half. We look at I'm not
even talking about the Lehman Brothers
or the WorldComs of the world. I mean,
just stocks that
their best days are behind them. How do
you know the difference between just a
regular stumble and beginning of the
end? Well, first of all, I'd say you
can't know. It I mean, it would be too
headstrong of me to say, "Here's what
Here's what you do. Here's how you
know." So, for me, I I just like to keep
my stocks in place and recognize some
are going to trip. I love horse racing
metaphors, and not every horse is going
to win the race. Not everyone's going to
make it to the race. Some get out to a
great start and don't finish well. And I
can't always know. But by holding, I
allow the ones that clearly will win uh
to win so grandly. You know, when you
make more than a thousand times your
money on Amazon or Nvidia, it doesn't
actually matter that you had some dogs
in your portfolio. So, you can be wrong,
and that's okay, cuz being right is so
much more valuable.
I will also add though, to answer your
question a little bit more directly, um
usually the companies that fall and
don't come back are being disrupted.
Earlier, I mentioned Clayton Christensen
Innovator's Dilemma. You can usually
kind of see it that the world is
changing. The company might still be
best in class. And it may have a famous
CEO that everybody loves. But all of a
sudden, there's this upstart. Might be a
whole industry of new players. And when
I see that in a company going down, I
may not want to hold on to that stock.
But if Netflix, which has been ascendant
now for 20 plus years, every time, if
it's down two-thirds of its value, which
has happened more than once, including
Quickster,
I keep holding that one, right? So, the
question is, does this company remain a
rule breaker? Is it a top dog and still
first mover in an emerging industry? Uh
and And when it is, I'm going to keep
holding that stock. When When did you
realize that Blockbuster was being
disrupted by Netflix? And PS, at one
point in the 2000s, Netflix tried to
sell themselves to Blockbuster for $50
and they turned them down. Yeah, it's
it's like Yahoo could have bought
Google. You love those stories. But you
know, I I would say that um I never
really thought too much about
Blockbuster as as a stock. I remember we
had the CEO on our Motley Fool radio
show. And at that time, Blockbuster
maybe had 25 million customers. And
Netflix had 1 million. And he He like,
"You know, we we're watching what
they're doing. It's it's neat what
they're doing. I don't think it's a it's
not a big scaling thing. You know, it's
kind of a niche thing. Do you want to
mail your DVD back and forth? Uh and
that it I think it was John Antioco, but
I mean, good man probably, but wrong. He
was wrong. And so, it wasn't so much
that I ever cared to love Blockbuster. I
just was watching this rule breaker
emerge and it was doing crazy stuff like
you can't just drop it off
two blocks away at your Blockbuster. You
have to mail it and keep a queue and
send it back and forth. But, the queue
is half the value of it. Here's all the
movies I want to see, which by the way,
every time I roll into Blockbuster, it's
rented and I'm not even talking about a
Saturday night. Like on a Wednesday,
what do you mean you don't have this?
>> Remember those days?
>> So, so instead um just working through
the queue. Netflix was like, so that the
the initial question is, wait, you want
me to mail DVDs back and forth to? Oh, I
see how this works, but this will never
replace Blockbuster. Two, no late fees?
Oh my god, why do I want to give
anything to Blockbuster? It was super
disruptive before online streaming. And
as a as a master of business
administration, actually I don't have an
MBA, but I know I'm a master business
kind of beautiful. Uh but, as students
of the game, as people who love
business, what actually was happening
was Netflix was changing the business
model of the consumer proposition in the
whole industry, right? Because as you
just pointed out, Blockbuster was a
transactional late fee driven and all of
a sudden you're subscribing to Netflix.
You're now in a subscription
relationship, very disruptive. There was
no there was really no um
precedent for that in that industry. So,
it looked like this crazy thing and it
was easy to mock. Why wouldn't you just
drop it off a block away? Mail it to
these people? And yet, it fundamentally
changed the business model forever. And
then, we're not even talking about
streaming, which we don't have to, but
they keep innovating. And the you know,
the interesting thing is
you met we were mentioning late fees.
You know, if you get a late fee from
your bank or a bounced check fee or
something, it's part of your statement.
It's not the same thing as showing up
and having someone say,
>> [laughter]
>> give me another seven bucks. What do you
mean give you another seven bucks? It it
was just like so annoying it and
alienating. Like, I think it's a good
rule of thumb. Try not to really piss
off all of your clients, all of your
customers. Not a good long-term
strategy. I have a small confession to
make that Wall Street summer I
referenced when I went to Salomon
Brothers, we we did. We had a a video
out from Blockbuster and we kept it the
whole summer. We just kept not returning
it. We were irresponsible college
sophomores and at the end of the summer,
I'm not even sure like we had racked up
a triple digit late fee.
>> Right. And the video was 20 bucks to
buy.
>> Exactly. So, buy another one.
>> So, we had a friend of ours who was
British go in with a British accent and
explain to Blockbuster that we were
renting his place. He doesn't really
know about it, but here's this video
that he found. And so, we kind of got
out of that one. It wasn't totally above
board, so I'm happy now to admit that.
This is helpful for me. But, yeah, that
was kind of the state of things. The
anxiety, the angst around returning a
video late and not feeling great, you
know, from a consumer branding
standpoint. So, yeah, Netflix, love
them. So, so let's talk about rule
breakers today.
Um they're going to be in different
spaces, biotech, defense tech, obviously
AI.
Um and a lot of these areas don't have a
whole lot of earnings or and they do
have a massive cash burn. So, how do you
think about valuation in the space? Does
it not matter if the growth is there?
Define the modern era of rule breakers.
>> So, I I would always be first of all
looking at industries and you just did
that, Sam. Um and you know, even
something like biotech, which you said,
um right, that's as you know, Barry,
that's multiple industries. I mean,
there's there's So,
the internet was never an industry. AI
is not an industry. So, we're talking
about again, huge technologies. I I was
saying earlier, plate tectonic shifts
for our society and you're looking for
the beneficiaries and you're looking for
the visionaries who are starting
something that might sound a little
crazy like mailing DVDs back and forth
or an electric car.
Uh and you you want to get invested in
those assuming that you agree with the
vision, you think the person is great.
You and I were referencing investor
research circa 1980s, '90s, an annual
report being mailed to you through the
mail. That was about all you had. There
weren't online forms or anything. These
days, you can watch long-form YouTube
videos watching any CEO be interviewed
and learn a lot about their character,
which carries which uh matters deeply to
me. I'm a big character person. So, I
want to feel really good about the
people I'm invested in across my
portfolio. So, we're looking at
important emerging industries and we're
not trying to force things that don't
exist yet. There's no ultra AI stock. I
mean, Nvidia has been an amazing hold
for us now 21 years in counting. It was
not an AI company when I first
recommended it, but we're still holding.
But, you know, these things are going to
emerge. I already mentioned earlier
things like Uber, Airbnb didn't show up
till more than 10 years after the
internet had really started to penetrate
American um life. And so, for me, it's
just keeping our eyes out, whether it's
genomics or
some uh Duolingo. Mhm.
A video game on your on your phone where
you're learning languages. Uh again, all
of these are from different industries,
but they are the innovator. And so,
yeah, we're we're staying focused in the
modern day
go forward on what are the companies
that are going to
add value to our world in a way that is
consumer noticeable and when they're
called overvalued, that's even better
for us as rule breaker investors. So,
let me share some criticism that you
share with Warren Buffett of all people.
When I'm doing my research for this
conversation, one of the things that
came up was uh you have this really good
long-term
track record, but if you've been
involved in more recently in the past
10, 15 years, well, all those Amazons,
Netflix, Apples from the early 2000s are
driving most of your gains. From what
I'm hearing from you
you're implying that doesn't really uh
hold true if you look at the Teslas and
the Ubers and the more modern positions.
Respond to that criticism. Hey, if you
weren't in it in '03, you really didn't
get any benefit. I I Well, first of all,
I would say that invest every day of
your life, every 2 weeks if you can.
Young people, the first thing you should
do is open account if you haven't
already. Save uh and with every paycheck
try to put up to 10% away and and put it
in. If you want, you can index, but I
think you should be buying stocks as
well alongside that and and learning as
you go. And anybody who's playing the
long game in the markets as they start
to hit their 30th or 40th year, which is
where I am, it's always going to look
like all your big winners were the first
10 years because of course, they are I
mean, literally Amazon is now more than
a thousand times the value for me. I'm
not trying to be Amazon guy. You don't
walk me you don't see me walking around
going, I'm the guy who had Amazon 16
cents. I also have that for Nvidia. Um
but but just by the nature of
compounding, Barry, which I think you
understand as well as anyone, it's
always going to look like all your big
winners were early. But, you know,
whether it's um Tesla picked in, you
know, 2011 or Shopify in 2016, these are
all rule breakers. Uh they're not going
to hit right away. Shopify's been up and
down, but mostly up. It's a great
example of a rule breaker circa the last
10 years, not the first 20 years. But, I
don't never want people to forget we
were right there at the beginning with
AOL and we were picking AOL and Amazon
and Starbucks, by the way, and the list
goes on. So, I would just say
compounding numbers are always going to
make it look like all of your big
winners are early in your career. So,
before I get to my favorite questions,
there's just one question I'm excited to
ask you.
When you're looking ahead, what trends,
what businesses, what ideas generally
get your curiosity going? Well, this is
this is an an
in the same way that 7 Up was the
un-cola back in the day, this is an
un-answer because By the way, you're
talking to a generation I know that has
no idea what that means.
>> you you and I do though. And we got some
of our peeps listening, right? Yeah, all
right, good. So, yeah.
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> I should have just answered the
question. So,
I I look for companies that
are conscious capitalism kinds of
companies. I want companies that first
of all are doing good in this world by
my perception. A lot of people think
it's a trade-off in life. They think
capitalism is greedy and evil and you
know, you're abusing workers and it's
all about maximizing shareholder value.
I completely disagree in many cases.
Sure, that exists in the world, but
that's not the story of of Amazon.
Amazon is a big, beautiful, amazing
enterprise that helped save lives during
COVID. And yes, they'll get criticized
for some of the things that they've done
and Jeff Bezos is considered an
egomaniac by some, but net net, please,
Amazon is a huge value contributor. So,
that's an example of a company. Uh Reed
Hastings and what he created at Netflix.
I mean, there's a whole 80-page slide a
lot of entrepreneurs have seen about how
Netflix does culture that they just kind
of shared out. You could see why they're
so successful cuz how they treat their
employees and the standards that they
hold where doing good actually leads to
doing well. And again, many people think
that's a trade-off or they don't
actually think that's real. So, I I
specifically want you and I to make our
portfolios reflect our best vision for
our future. And so, every company that I
already like invade against an entire
industry, the gaming industry earlier.
Sorry, gamers. But, by the way, I'm a
gamer, but I play video games and board
games, not 50/50 and the house takes 10%
uh game. But, I I would say say you
you're looking for the people who are
doing good or within their industry
they're admired for how they treat their
employees, how they win for their
customers, and how their partners and
suppliers are proud to be associated
with them. And guess what? Usually the
stocks end up outperforming in a world
where many people think it's too risky
to even buy individual stocks. So, the
more there's big dumb money slashing
around out there, Barry, the easier it
is for stock pickers like me, like you
if you like, like anybody listening to
us
to actually pick and discern the good
companies, hold them longer than Wall
Street, longer than the headlines than
CNBC will be talking about, and do
really well.
So, let's jump to our speed round, our
our favorite questions in the last 5
minutes we have, starting with who your
early mentors who helped shape your
career. So, my father, um who at the age
of 18 said, "Here you go, David. I've
been investing this for you from birth.
This is all you're ever getting from
me."
Really?
>> taught you out of Value Line, that big
black tome, uh the numbers of investing,
and I know you love sports statistics.
Another of my mentors, Bill James, the
awesome baseball statistician. Actually,
he was a journalist, um but James who
influenced Moneyball, of course. Um so,
who I've met before, but you know, these
these are early people who convinced me
uh of the fun of life and that it could
be counted with numbers. I'm an English
major, but there's a there's a big left
brain going on with me with loving
loving numbers and baseball stats and
college basketball stats. Ken Pomeroy,
by the way, Ken Pomeroy, that is a $25
subscription any sports fan uh would
enjoy. Um so, um uh so, Peter Lynch, um
I'm thinking about uh Clayton
Christensen I mentioned. These are all
people who really have helped me think
about what wins.
Uh look, you mentioned Moneyball, let's
talk about books. Uh what are some of
your favorites? What are you reading
right now? Yeah, so, um
first of all, I'm reading right now uh
The Score by T Vu N. And The Score is an
amazing, but I think the subtitle is
something like how to stop playing
somebody else's game.
And Vu N is a games philosopher. So,
people are, you know, philosophers about
ideas or art, he specifically looks at
games. And his book talks about how
social media, for example, is sort of a
game. Like as soon as you start imposing
likes and follows, um you're playing
somebody else's game. You're playing
Twitter X's game or Facebook's game.
When you have to accept GPA as a measure
of how well you've done in college, then
it becomes big and bureaucratic and
everybody's using that, you are
unfortunately playing somebody else's
game. Sometimes you have to do it, but
being self-aware of what is motivating
you, it is an amazing book, and I highly
recommend The Score. I've had T Vu N on
my podcast a couple of times, love the
guy. I mean, we just can geek out about
board games, but that's what I'm reading
right now. But you know, when I think
about books, I mean, it's a motley array
of books, um No kidding. Barry, indeed.
I mean, The Inevitable by Kevin Kelly is
a great book about the future. I'm a big
Kevin Kelly fan, he founded Wired
magazine. He's a genius. Um I I enjoy
Arthur Brooks's columns in The Atlantic,
he writes about happiness. I I really
loved his book Love Your Enemies,
talking about the divisiveness in our
country and how to solve that. And uh
and I I would love to see more of that.
Um Steven Pinker and all of his data
accumulation around um
technologies trends in our culture. Uh
it seems always to be smart to be a
pessimist. You always sound smarter when
you talk something down, and yet we're
pinch yourself that you're living today.
I know we have a lot of problems. We
have many many better problems. There
were many worse problems in over human
history. Steven Pinker reminds us of
that.
>> Right. Our World in Data, uh Hans
Rosling, same thing.
And I was rudely using my phone to get
the exact name of a book that I'm going
to recommend to you cuz it's sitting on
my desk, and the author is Danny Funt.
Everybody Loses, and it's all about um
the tumultuous rise of American sports
gambling and why it's such an
>> he wrote that. So, uh I it's literally
waiting for me to it's next up
this this giant I love thing, but um
it's right in your right in your MO. Um
I mentioned uh earlier uh some streaming
to and we've been talking about Netflix
and Amazon. So, tell us uh what are your
favorite Netflix or Amazon Prime videos
or what podcasts are you listening to?
Thank you. I I you know, I really
enjoyed Apple's uh Platonic, if you saw
that.
>> It's also in my queue, next up. It looks
great.
>> recommend that. Um uh that's just season
1. I mean, we have a lot of British
comedy fans in my family, so um shows
like Mitchell and Webb, the comedy duo,
their clips are all over um YouTube, but
um IT Crowd, hilarious show, streaming,
totally recommend that. Um not as funny,
but very British, All Creatures Great
and Small, Very interesting, the vet
early 20th century.
>> Exactly. Just such a Slow Horses, great
great show, Apple, um Andor. Sure, I I
love sci-fi, I love all the Marvel
stuff. By the way, Marvel's been an
amazing stock for me. It got bought out
by Disney, so these days we have a very
low cost basis you couldn't have gotten
because when Disney bought Marvel at a
huge premium, we Marvel shareholders, we
happy few buying a rule breaker that
looked overvalued, we've ended up doing
really well. So, but you know, Andor,
obviously Star Wars, and I I love brands
and I love family entertainment. So,
those are some that come to mind. I I
just flew back from San Francisco, and
on the flight I rewatched um Deadpool
and Wolverine, and it's like I forgot
how much fun that movie was.
Um really really a blast. Our final two
questions, what sort of advice would you
give to a recent college graduate
interested in a career in investing?
Well, I would first of all say that you
should pick individual stocks, and you
should pay attention to the game, and
you should love it. You should have a
lot of fun. I mean, I I love sports.
We've talked about I know you do, too.
We've talked about that a lot. People
follow their sports teams day to day. Um
I follow the markets day to day, and the
difference is you actually can make
serious money by learning and following
the market in a way you never will as a
sports fan. And I love sports, and you
know, sports can be a little bit more
fun day to day, but the markets are open
every day. Your NFL team only plays on
Sundays, and starting to figure out what
wins in the marketplace, and why is that
app on your phone not somebody else's
app, what's in your fridge, what are you
wearing, noticing the things that go on
around you, this is going to lead to
riches, but it's also going to open your
mind to uh awareness of what's happening
in our society. And I do think the
people who are taught to index and not
really care are kind of walking blind in
society when they could be poking their
feelers up, seeing what's happening in
genomics or robotic surgery or whatever.
And I'm an English major, and I care
about these things, and profiting as a
consequence. I would also say to any
young person, start investing yesterday.
And our final question, what do you know
about the world of investing today might
have been useful back in 1993 when you
were first getting started? I I would
just say that when I first got started
in 1993, investing was more of a math
exercise for me. I was taught by a dad,
I mentioned Value Line, lots of ratios
that we know. I I never learned
financial statements until I bought How
to Read a Financial Statement um uh the
year after I graduated college thinking,
you know, I kind of missed that. I never
really did that. And so, I I was very
numerically driven. I think what I
realized is that um using your right
brain
in a world where many people are just
using their left brain uh is where the
real value's added. My favorite chapter
in my Rule Breaker Investing book uh
points out that most of the things that
win in business are not actually on the
financial statements. We've already
talked about a few of them. Who's
running the company? That is incredibly
important. How about the brand value of
a company? Most Most of those are never
expressed anywhere in the financial
statements. The culture of the company.
Can it innovate? Those four things are
the bedrocks as an entrepreneur I know,
I see it at my own company when we fail
and when we succeed.
None of those is being captured in the
financial statements, and we're living
in a left-brain driven algorithmic
world, and so I think here and now I
see, and I only think longer term than I
ever did before when I was 30 years ago.
I think longer term today at the age of
59 than 29, and I use my right brain.
Huh. David, thank you so much for being
so generous with your time. This has
been absolutely fascinating. We have
been speaking with David Gardner. He is
one of the co-founders of The Motley
Fool and author of the book, let's see
if I can spit this out, Rule Breaker
Investing: How to Pick the Best Stocks
of the Future and Build Lasting Wealth.
If you enjoyed this conversation,
[music] well, check out any of the 627
we've done over the past dozen years.
You can find those at YouTube, Spotify,
Apple, Bloomberg, [music] wherever you
get your favorite podcasts. I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the crack team
that helps these conversations come
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer, Sean Russo is my
researcher,
Anna Luk is my podcast producer. I'm
Barry Ritholtz. You've been listening to
Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
>> [music]